so this time we'll be talking about
debugging neural networks for NLP so
this is something that's relatively
important and something I didn't even
think about doing until you know like a
week or so ago but I think this is good
to know I think there will be a lot of
questions this time so if you have
questions feel free to feel free to ask
as well so in neural networks one of the
good things about neural networks is
they're extremely powerful and they're
good at getting good results one of the
bad things about neural networks is
everything is a hyper parameter in
neural networks so this means that you
need to tune them appropriately to get
the absolute best performance you can do
pretty well without tuning but if you do
tuning you'll get you'll get better
results usually so some of the things
that are worth tuning are network size
and depth small variations in the model
do you use @nh or do you use a rel you
or do you use something else how you
create your mini-batches what's the size
of your mini-batches
what order do you create them in what is
your optimizer what is your learning
rate and etc etc and you know models are
complicated they're often somewhat
opaque and debugging can be difficult so
the idea is how how do we do this in a
more effective way so I think the first
step I talked about this very briefly
before in kind of an informal way but
the first step to debugging is
understanding your problem understanding
which part of your code the problem is
likely to be a result of and a typical
situation is basically you've
implemented a nice model that you think
should be working you've looked at the
code and it looks okay but your accuracy
on the test set is bad it's not working
at all or it's not working as well as
you would expect it to so so what do you
do
um there's a lot of possible causes for
bad accuracy and one thing that I think
is really really important for
effectively debugging is to understand
these clauses and be able to diagnose
diagnose these clauses so one of them is
training time problems so basically you
have this model that should be training
but for some reason it's just not
learning to fit the training set well um
and if this is the case this means you
either lack model capacity you for some
reason you have inability to train the
model properly for example your
optimizer is not good etc or you have a
bug training time where your model is
just not what you expected it to be you
can also have decoding time bugs or
basically search bugs that don't allow
you to search for the answer properly
this is especially common in structured
prediction models where you need to take
one prediction and and feed it back into
your model and these can often result
from a disconnect between tests oh sorry
between training time and decoding time
not test time and decoding time training
and decoding time um it can also result
from a failure of your search algorithm
to find the best results um another
problem that maybe many of you are
familiar with now is overfitting and
also mismatch between the optimized
function in what you're finally
evaluating your model on and all of
these are different things they have
different symptoms and they have
different solutions and if you just look
at this and you train your model and
you're getting bad test accuracy you
don't know which one of these it is so
you don't know which part of your model
to debug so I'll explain about any
questions so far
okay so let's first talk about debugging
at training time um so in order to
identify training time problems how do
we tell that our model was not training
properly
um basically the way you can look at
this is you can look at the loss
function calculated on the on the
training set um is the loss function
going down so you know do you have a
nice curve for your loss function that
looks like this also is it going down
basically to zero if you let training go
along long enough so you know it should
on your train set it should go you know
it won't ever reach zero exactly in most
cases theoretically it could reach sale
but in most cases it won't but it should
be going down very very close to zero
after twenty to thirty eight lakhs yeah
yeah it definitely depends on the data
size it doesn't depend on the data size
as much as you would think though you
know if you have big data it needs to
learn a lot more to reduce the training
loss to zero
in order to memorize things so actually
you'd be surprised by how constant the
number of the box is regardless of your
trading size but if you have more
training data it will need maybe
slightly fewer epics yes um twenty to
thirty is usually well if you're using
regular SGD twenty to thirty is pretty
reasonable if you're using a different
optimizer like more sophisticated
optimizer twenty to thirty is usually
more than you but I can talk about that
later um so if not if not you have a
training problem so if for some reason
your model
it's doing something like this it's not
getting you know close to zero then
you're probably not training your model
is not training very well or if your
model is going like this on the training
set then this is also a bad thing yep
dropout will affect the shape it will
definitely make training slower it will
almost always make training slower um it
might make it look something a little
bit like this it might not converge
completely ever so if you're adding
strong regularization of course you
might not be able to fit the training
data so if you don't have a dropout and
you don't have any source of
regularization something it might be
like that even if you have dropout it
will usually converge to somewhere
pretty close um so the first problem is
your model could potentially just be too
weak to fit the training set properly
this is not necessarily a problem you
might want to make your model a little
bit weaker so it doesn't over fit as
heavily but in most cases neural network
models do best when they have enough
parameters to fit the data and then you
want to add something like dropout to
prevent to prevent it from overfitting
so it needs to be big enough to learn
model size completely depends on the
task but some general rules of thumbs
that some general rules of thumb that I
have are if you're doing something like
language modeling you usually want about
512 nodes you can get away with 256 or
something like this if you're doing
something like natural language analysis
as few as 128 might be reasonable but
bigger can often work better so if
you're using 32 nodes in your recurrent
neural network that's probably not
enough and you're not going to be able
to fit the data
even if you're worried about overfitting
bigger can still sometimes be be better
so you might you'd be surprised by how
big you can make your network and still
haven't learned also multiple layers are
often better so if you if you want to
learn something that's relatively
complicated having multiple layers in
your net can be a good idea um this is
not always necessary but necessarily the
case said this will give you big gains
but usually at least two layers for an
NLP related tasks um it's especially
important to have lots of layers if you
expect if you expect something to be
complicated so something like language
modeling for example predicting the next
word requires you to kind of you know
put push things on the stack pop things
off the stack kind of remember your your
state with regards to previous several
previous words and combine them together
in complicated ways and because of this
having multiple layers allows you to
create more complicated functions and a
smaller number of parameters so this can
help the really strong machine
translation models for example tend to
have six or eight layers you can do
really you can do pretty well with only
one or two but if you want to get the
absolute best accuracy adding adding
many more can help also for very long
sequences um if you're using recurrent
neural networks you often need larger
hidden node sizes you need larger sizes
in your Arnette
um so for example if you want to build a
word based language model you know 256
or 512 might be enough if you want to
build a character based language model
you'll want something like 1024 or
something bigger
uh anybody know why any ideas yeah
basically you need to remember so you
need more memory capacity another way to
interpret it is you need to remember not
only what the word you're in you need to
remember what position in what word
you're in so you need to be more
fine-grained about about what position
you're in and having a larger network
can help you with that
so in general this is another important
thing to remember well so for example if
you're doing character base language
modeling that will be five times longer
than your number of words so instead of
having 40 words you'll have 200
characters for something like speech you
might have a thousand frames oh that's
an excellent question so if the model
fits the training data perfectly does
that mean we have enough nodes no it
doesn't and the reason why is because it
might fit the training data in a very
strange way it might fit it in a very in
a way that's not actually generalizing
appropriately and it's very hard to tell
whether that's the case or not but I
guess one symptom is if it's taking a
long time to converge with few nodes and
you increase the number of nodes and
it's suddenly converging much faster
than that's probably a sign that you
want more that you want more nodes if
you increase the number of nodes and it
converges at about the same speed then
that might then you might not need as
many nodes but that's just a complete
rule of thumb that's something that I've
noticed and I don't have any
like theoretical grounding behind oh
yeah um yeah it depends on your task if
you're doing something like language
modeling there's something called
truncated back propagation through time
where you only calculate a piece of the
sequence in back wrap through the piece
of the sequence um if not reduce your
mini batch size use something other than
an LS TM that's a little bit more memory
efficient like CN NS tend to be more
memory efficient than Alice teams do but
yeah I guess those are the major things
Oh use multiple GPUs if you have if you
have a multi GPU machine you can put
part of your model on one GPU and
another part of another so I guess those
are the main the main things okay oh one
one other piece of advice is if you have
variably length sequences and you're
creating mini batches but if you create
mini batches by the number of sentences
the your maximal memory consumption will
be mini batch size maximal mini batch
size in the corpus times number of
sentences so if you have one sentence
that's a thousand words and most of
other sentences are 100 words then
you're going to be wasting a lot of
memory capacity so what you can do
instead is you can create mini batches
by the number of words in the mini batch
is opposed to the number of sentences
this is something that not a whole lot
of people do but I really like and it
seems it seems to work well for me but
you could try that okay so one thing is
just because you increase your memory
capacity doesn't necessarily mean it's a
good idea so if you have deep models
extra layers can help but they also have
the potential to
make learning much much harder and this
is simply because of the vanishing
gradient problem where if you have a
model that's eight layers deep but you
might not be able to learn the earlier
layers of the model because the
gradients propagate that and they
disappear while they're propagating um
fortunately now there's a bunch of
solutions to this that work that worked
pretty well so residual connections so
the idea behind a residual connection is
but then you add the previous implants
yeah by doing this basically what you're
doing is you're passing the you're
passing the previous vector as is all
the way from the beginning of the
network to the end of the network so if
you do this basically you're guaranteed
that you won't be hurting your accuracy
by adding more layers because you can
learn to just ignore the earlier layers
and rely entirely on this identity
function
there's also highway networks which are
very similar they were proposed at a
very similar kind but this is one where
you basically have a gating function so
this T here is a gating function that
decides whether to use the transform
inputs or or the identity both of these
have been used successfully in NLP tasks
um okay so next is a trouble with
optimization so if increasing model size
doesn't help and you're still getting
something like this you might have an
optimization problem so possible causes
for this include a bad optimizer a bad
learning rate bad initialization or a
bad mini batching strategy mostly the
first three also partially the the last
one but it's generally one of the one of
the top three
so if you remember this is I talked
about this at the very beginning of
class so probably everybody's forgotten
it by now
but there's a bunch of optimizers you
have things like SGD which simply takes
a step in the direction of the gradient
SGD with momentum this remembers
ingredients from the past time steps and
a grad adapt the learning rate to reduce
the learning rate for frequently updated
parameters atom like a de grad that
keeps the running average of the
momentum a gradient variance etc in many
others um my if you just want to
optimize the training los atom seems to
work quite well is stable it tends to
work and get you to a good optimized
place most of the time so if you're
encountering something like this and
you're not using atom I would suggest I
would suggest trying it out but I will
I'll talk about some reasons not to use
atom later in the later in the sides
okay
so learning rates learning rate um it's
an important parameter of your model um
if it's too low your model will not
learn or it will learn very very slowly
if it's too high it will learn for a
while then fluctuate and diverge or
never you know converge to a good point
so a common strategy is to start from an
initial learning rate then gradually
decrease your learning rate as training
goes on um a so one way you can do this
is you can train for like five five or
ten in a box and then just arbitrarily
have the learning rate of react if you
have big data this is pretty common
effective strategy you can also use a
development set which I'll talk about in
a little bit another very very important
note that people might not realize if
you're not familiar with this is
different optimizers require different
initial learning rates so sgds initial
magic initial learning rate is 0.1 it
works a lot of the time Adams magical
initial learning rate is 0.001 this
works a lot of the time but these are
things that can be adjusted so it's it's
very common for SVT to range between 0.5
and 0.01 so maybe five times it's very
common for Adam to be a little bit
smaller than this so 0.001 to 0.0001 so
when you're reading a paper B don't
ignore this this will only be one
sentence in the paper but if you read it
if you meet that sentence carefully this
might be something especially if it's
something other than the default if they
set it to something other than the
default then it's there's a pretty good
chance that they tried the other ones
and any questions about that the
learning rate and batch size um this is
a really difficult question and the
reason why it's a difficult question is
because there's three factors here um
actually I forgot one other thing that's
but there's also something called
gradient clipping so greedy clipping is
a thing where basically you take the
gradients of all of your parameters and
you calculate the norm of the gradient
so let's say these are the ingredients
of all your parameters you calculate the
norm of the gradient and then divide
your ingredients by this and multiply it
by some constant C and for example and a
lot of the time the C is 5 which is
arbitrary in DINO to defaults to 5 in
other toolkits it defaults
but this is really important because if
your gradients fluctuate in scale a lot
it makes training unstable so this is
a common thing in neural network
toolkits no batch size if you make your
batch size bigger for SGD at least that
will make your effective learning rate
bigger but if you're doing rigging
clipping it will actually not make your
effective gradient figure because your
gradients will be clipped anyway and
though all this also some cool cuts by
default average your gradients when you
do things over batches so if you average
the gradients then that will also make
things similar so that's a good question
but there's no super clear okay um
initialization this is something that
you don't need to think about quite as
much but it can be it can still make a
difference in your results
um so neural networks are very sensitive
to your initialization because this
results in different sized agreed ian's
for the models there are a lot of
different standard initialization
methods one is gum Gaussian and this
initialization where you initialize with
a zero mean Gaussian distribution
another one is uniform range where you
just pick a range uniformly maybe
between zero - zero point one and zero
point one and then you initialize
everything to be uniform within that
range there is also more intelligent
initialization strategies that basically
initialize in a uniform manner but where
the range is specified according to than
that size in the default depends in
dinette the default is blow outs
initialization and then there's also um
this is just to give a very very simple
intuition if you have something like a
matrix W and you have and you have the
hidden state here on the idea is when
you multiply this
by the hidden state you should be
getting something that is in the
reasonable range close to zero and not
changing the variance of this very much
so the if you make it for example much
bigger than what you get from here
you're going to get things that explode
or get much smaller when you when you do
this matrix um okay so next sorry
there's lots of things here so I'm going
relatively quickly I'm happy to happy to
take questions about so the next one is
about how you do mini batching um so if
you remember mini batching in our n ends
we take multiple sentences we do padding
we calculate the loss according to each
of these we do some masking to remove
any extraneous losses then we take the
sum and this I think a lot of people
have realized speeds up your training
immensely especially when you're
training on GPUs in order to do this you
basically need to get sentences and put
them together in a single mini batch
it's much better if you do it sentences
of similar length so if you do sentences
of vastly different lengths you'll have
lots and lots of padding padding and
masking and that wastes your computation
time basically so one way to get around
this is bucketing and sorting your
bucketing or sorting your your sentences
so if we use sentences with different
lengths to much padding and sorting can
result in the training being slowed down
so to remedy this it's very common to
sort sentences so similarly length
sentences are on the same mini batch and
I think the coding examples that we have
shows this
what this means is basically we have
maybe you'd size three-year size 32 or
something like that
um so this is this is pretty common one
thing to be aware of is that this is not
necessarily benign it can affect your
performance so we have a paper where we
did this not only for single sentences
but we did it for machine translation
and based on how you sort your source
sentences and target sentences you get
different you get different results so
it was worse to sort by the target
sentences the source and the most evil
thing was just to randomly shuffle the
sentences so don't do any sorting at all
and kind of randomly shuffling makes
sense from machine learning point of
view you don't want to have bias in each
of your mini batches that cause you to
jump in one direction or another
direction but this was a kind of this
was a kind of interesting finding that
that made me realize that this is
relatively important okay so this is
this is training related stuff are there
any questions about
oh it is yeah yeah so Bachelor
mobilization is not it's kind of
something that's a little bit different
than what I was talking about here so
batch normalization just to get the very
brief summary is you look at all the
elements in your batch and you normalize
each node or each like value basically
by with respect to the other elements in
the batch so that things become I
believe zero mean and unit variance plus
x multiplied by a constant in the adding
a bias or something like that and the
the motivation behind this is neural
that classifiers in general and neural
networks in particular like things that
are normalized so that they aren't they
don't like values that are like 500 499
500 501 stuff like this the reason why
this is bad is if you multiply this by a
weight and then use that in your
activation you're going to get things
this huge things will be saturated two
very edges of this 10 H and you don't
get any gradient and that's part of the
reason why initialization is so
important
the idea behind batch normalization is
that if like that what's of your network
are getting these really huge values or
values that aren't centered around zero
you would like them to be we would like
them to be close to zero so for example
you might take the mean it might take
the mean it's
for me which would give you 0 minus 1 0
1 which is much easier for nuts to
handle this is a trick that's used to
make training easier and it's something
that people could consider using but
it's not directly related to this
although maybe if you made your batches
larger than batch normalization would
work better but they can't see much more
than that said answer the question you
could you could normalize over a bedding
space where did betting's are actually
relatively easy because they're fixed
inputs so if you wanted if let's say you
had pre trained word embeddings if you
wanted you could just normalize all the
word embeddings to be like zero mean and
unit variance before you even started
using them that would probably work as
well as batch normalization if they're
not pre trained then you might want to
normalize their norm to be a fixed size
so it was actually a paper that just
came out that was very effective at
machine translation that fixed the norm
of your word embeddings but if it's an
input you can do feature whitening
before you even start using your okay um
so I move on to debugging stuff so all
the all this stuff that I did up until
now is kind of figuring out how you're
like why your neural network isn't
converging properly these bugs are these
problems are not necessarily the easiest
to track down but they're not impossible
to solve
like you can they're you know if you
have kind of the tricks that I mentioned
here you can kind of figure out ways to
make your net that converge more stable
II debugging a decoding time this is
really annoying but it's easy to do
and if you just spend enough time on it
you can find you can find your problems
here but it's also a really big problem
for any kind of structured prediction
you're doing so the reason why you have
a problem at decoding time is basically
because you're training your model to do
something different than you're asking
your model to do during inference um so
the reason why this happens is usually
because you're lost calculation which
you use a training in your decoding will
be implemented in different functions so
for example in our example of
encoder/decoder
hi we have a loss function that
calculates a loss and we have a generate
function that actually generates the
output and if you're aware of kind of
the principles of software engineering
and software engineering the absolute
worst thing to do is maybe not absolute
worst but one of the worst things to do
is to copy and paste code copying and
pasting is the best way to introduce
bugs into your into your system so
basically what we're trying to do what
we're doing with calculus and generate
is we're copying and pasting code we're
copying our calculus code into our into
our generation code and any place where
we're doing the same thing in different
functions is a potential cause of the
error another thing that makes things
harder is usually loss calculation is
done on the mini-batch level so you you
have mini-batch calculation for your
loss which makes things more efficient
but your generation is not I'm talking
exclusively about structure and
prediction problems here because most of
the many of the things we do in NLP are
structured prediction but um if it's not
structured prediction this situations a
little bit better but you can still make
mistakes so first um debugging mini
batching so how to debug mini batching
is pretty straightforward
um you calculate a loss with a large
batch size um you calculate the loss for
each sentence individually and then sum
those 32 losses together
and the value should be exactly the same
modulo numerical precision ears so
probably about probably about ten to the
minus five the difference should be ten
to the minus no more than ten to the
minus five usually it's like ten to the
minus eight or something like that after
dividing by one of the values and I
highly suggest if you have unit tests in
your code to create a unit test that
tests us for you for the common models
that you're using and this will be very
good at kind of figuring out errors so
just to give you an idea of where these
errors can occur as I mentioned before
when you do mini batching um if you're
doing this kind of patting and masking
if you do patting and masking wrong it's
likely that your mini batch function
will diverge from your non mini batch to
function and that's a very good way to
kind of catch this problem and realize
that you have something different um in
reality sorry let me go back here in
reality this is the smallest problem
that you can have in I think this is
generally the smallest problem that you
can have regarding decoding the
difference between mini batch mini
batched calculation and batch
calculation especially if you're doing
something like sorting by your source
sentence for a while my machine
translation code didn't even do padding
and masking at all and it worked pretty
well but if you do padding and masking
it does help you a little bit especially
when your data is is very small so this
is one way to test whether it's working
so the next thing this is super
important this can totally destroy your
results if it's not a if it's not
working properly so debugging decoding
so your decoding code or your search
code um basically the scores that you
calculate in your search code should get
the same loss or should get the same
school
is your loss calculation so what you do
is you calculate the loss you use your
cop floss function to calculate the loss
of a correct answer and then you perform
forced decoding so basically the idea
behind force decoding if your true
function is normal but you have one
switch
reference reference you generate the
word from the reference if you and then
if you do this you can basically force
your model to generate the reference
sentence or tree or whatever you're
trying to generate and should be exactly
the same as the score from your
calculate loss budget if it's not
exactly the same this means that during
training time and during test time
you're calculating different functions
and this is a big problem this will
cause you anything from small small
errors to you know just completely not
getting any output and um yeah the score
of the two should be the same and you
can also create a unit test for this so
this will help prevent regressions and
you can have a whole suite of unit tests
that for all of the models you're in
student ESTs all these things it makes
sure that there's no problems okay any
questions about this okay
so next is beam search dan is going to
talk about beam search on Thursdays so I
won't talk about it in detail but I
think a lot of people know the general
idea which is instead of picking the
single highest probability path in
greedy search you pick you know by doing
so you tend to get better results so
this will be more on Thursday but this
is also a place where you can make
mistakes if you implement search
incorrectly so basically as you make
search better the model score should get
better almost all of the time it's
actually not guaranteed that you'll get
a better model score by doing beam
search but you'll almost all the time
you'll get a better model score and
especially you will if you look at your
entire test corpus so you run search
with varying beam sizes and just make
sure you get a better overall score with
the larger view and also creating your
test for us so this is how to debug
problems in decoding any questions
um another thing that is very helpful
for a number of reasons is to look at
your data I highly recommend looking at
your data at model design time in fact
in the in the assignments we kind of
enforce this in a way by migrating
analysis of the data but also when
you're debugging problems it can be
useful it's often not super useful but
sometimes you can just look at the
outputs and realize something is
obviously wrong so this is one example
that I've seen before um the model is
just deleting the first word of your
output every single time it was an off
by one error where we intended to delete
the startup sentence symbol but the
startup sentence symbol wasn't appended
to our sentence so we got a blue score
for this we got a blue score for this it
looked pretty okay it was like 17 but
when we fixed this bug it went up to 21
so that's a big that's a big improvement
so this is my favorite one so our system
was making University of Nebraska
Kearney and unknown word so the
abbreviation for University of Nebraska
Kearney is UNK so I don't actually know
exactly how the person who found this
found this but I think we like our
vocabularies didn't match or something
like this but if you look at your data
sometimes you can realize see strange
strangers as well okay so this is the
problems of training time in decoding
time or training time in inference time
mismatches the next thing is battling
overfitting so this is much harder than
any of the other things because there's
no correct way no correct way to do this
but it's very important to know when
everything is working properly but
you're just overfitting
so basically training wasps converges
well but Tesla's diverges I think most
people here know the symptom of
overfitting and it looks something like
this so you see our training loss goes
down relatively quickly and it's
continuing to decrease but the test loss
goes down for a while and then it starts
getting getting worse and worse so this
is symptomatic of overfitting um one
thing I should mention here is that if
you're worried about overfitting you
don't even need to look at your accuracy
you your accuracy is going to fool you
because your accuracy and your loss are
not the same thing so you're optimizing
your model to improve your loss so you
should be measuring your boss on your on
your development set and if your loss
looks like this then your overfitting if
you just look at this simple example
this simple example was a missed I
believe which is a simple omission by
certification you can see the words very
quickly while the accuracy does not
start getting worse so it's not
necessarily the case that looking at the
accuracy will well let you see that
you're overfitting um so the first
important thing to know is that in many
cases
barring the cases that I talked about
training your neural network can
memorize your training data so this was
a paper that was kind of interesting and
widely cited but basically if your
neural network has more parameters than
training example or your neural network
will almost always have more parameters
than the number of training examples
that you have and what this paper said
is basically if you randomly shuffle the
training labels in other words there's
no correlation between input and labels
the only way it can get good accuracy is
by memorizing each individual example
you can see it can still
reasonable loss function on the on the
training with random labels so the blue
one it's the true labels this is where
it's actually learning but the true
function that you want to be doing you
can see it's much much easier to learn
with Cru labels like that makes sense
you should still able to reuse the boss
after it in that box or two or yeah
actually importantly it's still able to
reduce the loss after the first step
Bach because the first step pockets just
seeing random labels so it can't reduce
selasa phone but after that it uh after
that it's able to reduce the loss and
they also did things where you corrupt
the labels etc um
so given this because your neural
network can memorize your training data
the only thing that we you know it's
quite possible that it will learn to
memorize the training data but not learn
anything useful to generalize to the
test data and if that's the case we need
to know why and we need to know how to
how to fix this the best way to prevent
overfitting is to make a better model is
to make a model that's really really
easy to learn and if you make a model
that's really really easy to learn
then it won't over fit it will learn
well so one reason why overfitting
occurs is because you haven't done a
good enough job and you need to do
better but even if that's the case even
if you have a pretty well thought-out
model that works well there's also a lot
of things that can cause overfitting
down anyway so the first kind of rule of
thumb that I think a lot of people knew
for a long time but nobody actually
wrote a paper about until like a few
months ago was that a adaptive gradient
methods like Adam they tend to over fit
more than stochastic gradient descent
so adaptive gradient methods like atom
are very very fast to learn they will
very quickly optimize your training data
or your training loss but they tend to
overfit a little bit more so a training
curve that you often see um so this this
paper examines examines that a little
bit but I think this is something that
you know if you've tried different
optimizers you'll have realized um so as
a reminder um I also talked about this
at the beginning of the class but we
have early stopping and we have learning
rate decay so we want to prevent them
from overfitting and one way we can do
this is by monitoring our performance on
a held out development set so we we hold
out our development set in the moment we
start getting or we remember the model
that did the best on the development set
and then we use that to test our models
so once it in the case and also
sometimes are very often helps to reduce
the learning rate and continue training
so reducing the learning rate and
continuing training if you have a lower
learning rate it becomes harder to
overfit particular examples so this is
pretty effective so development
driven learning rate decay so you said
sorry I'm this repeated but you start
with a high learning rate then degrade
it when you start overfitting the
development set so this is kind of like
it's similar to early stopping but
instead you're lowering the learning
rate this is apparently called the new
Bob learning rate schedule I don't know
who Bob is but it was probably somebody
I think it was probably someone in
speech recognition because I see the
speech recognition people saying this
but it's apparently called the new Bob
the learning rate schedule um in
experiments that we did we did Adam with
learning rate decay and this ended up
working pretty well
for Mt we were actually surprised by how
much better it did than SGD with
learning rate decay one crucial
difference between what we did and I
believe what this paper did is here they
also did learning rate for Adam but we
initialized the parameters for the
momentum parameters to be zero and I
think that kind of jolts Adam out of out
of a local minimum that it's approached
but I think kind of people are coming up
with strategies for for doing adaptive
learning properly and I think you'll
probably see more papers talking about
how to do this
yes so adaptive I think basically the
basic intuition between adaptive behind
adaptive learning rates mathematically
might be to reduce variance but you can
actually think of it more especially in
NLP you have a lot of sparse parameters
in for example your word embeddings
and a word embedding for a particular
word doesn't get updated unless you see
that word and because of that basically
you're rare words are going to get many
many fewer updates than your common
words an adaptive learning rates
basically mostly what they do is they
reduce the learning rate every time they
do an update it's not completely that
clear but every time you update the
parameters basically you reduce the
learning rate a little bit and maybe
maybe it recovers after a while or
something so the intuition behind why
atom works a lot better is because it
does big bold learning rate updates for
rare parameters and it does small small
parameter updates for common parameters
so your dense parameters in the net that
you use for every example get updated in
a small step but the rare ones get
updated the big stuff and I think why
would that why would that cause more
overfitting you could also argue that
it's probably updating those rare
parameters too much and it would be
better to be more conservative and how
you do updates at the beginning until
you actually know what part of the space
you should be in but I honestly don't
have a very clean and crisp explanation
for why they over so so the comment was
that there's a momentum term so in a
degrade in particular you always reduce
the learning rates but but atom also
takes the running average so it can
recover so it's learning rate can
recover after the learning rate has
dropped data grab the learning rate just
drops and that's obviously a bad idea it
will you know stop learning after a
while so yeah there's also a kind of
momentum term that keeps a rolling
average I'd like to think about this
more and come up with a better answer
but the basic intuition is that you know
they update the rare parameters more so
yeah so one other one other thing
dropout is usually a good idea to use so
dropout means you randomly zero out
nodes in the hidden layer with
probability P I talked about this before
I guess the only real thing about
dropout is it does make things it makes
training take longer it makes things a
little bit more less stable and you tend
to need a bigger network if you're using
dropout if you're it's not quite as
clear cut as this but if you have a
network of size 256 and you do dropout
with a probability of 50% it's a pretty
good idea to make your net twice as big
and make it a 512 and then scaling
isness
oh this is this is layer dropout you can
also drop out coal words and the inputs
that's another thing that that is useful
what the yeah so you can drop out whole
words and input that could be that's
particularly effective in the output
side of sequence to sequence models I
think but you can also do it for things
like text classification or whatever I'm
not sure
so for text classification I'm not sure
it's a super good idea all the time
because if you drop out the most
important word that is the key to text
classification then you're asking your
model to learn from all the other stuff
and that seems like it could also
potentially increase overfitting right
because you need to remember your
examples so on the output side of
sequence sequence models you already
have all the information you need but
I'm the input you know I'm the input
side it's not entirely clear although I
don't think anybody's examined that
before so we current drop out basically
we would like to also apply drop out to
recurrent neural networks the this is
called variational variational recurrent
neural networks because you can also
kind of interpret this from a Bayesian
interpretation but the basic idea is
that when you apply dropout to recurrent
neural network um
you basically sample a single drop a
desk for all your time of steps and the
important thing is that you're dropping
out the same nodes at every time step if
we thought about the alternate in an
alternative where we dropped out
different nodes at every time step
basically each time we would lose some
of our memory that we need to be using
to remember the remember the whole
sentence so the original was just do
the recursion notes but they simply a
single sibling a single mask you can do
this and this is implemented in most of
your neural network toolkits okay okay
so you have two problems which are
different problems so the the
fluctuating development loss problem
there one way to handle this is by
adding something called patients which
patients is basically you wait a certain
number of debt development evaluations
before you reduce the learning rate so
you might wait
you might evaluate ten times and then
you only reduce the learning rate after
you've not gotten any better for ten
times and that is pretty effective at
solving the fluctuation problem the
Devon test
mismatch I'm sorry I wish you had a
match development set and test set but
if you don't you're not allowed to look
at your test set to do anything so so
you're out of luck
but so so that's a good question how do
you divide training data in test data if
you're making your own data set the best
from a theoretical machine learning
perspective is to randomly sample
randomly sample instances so if you can
assume that your instances are
independently independent and
identically distributed that makes
everything nice from a from machine
learning perspective and the way to do
that is to randomly sample your dev and
test sets um
in reality that might not be a good idea
because if you actually want to build a
system maybe your training data doesn't
actually match your development in test
data in which case you probably would
like to choose your development in test
data in a way that matches what you
actually want to do so if you wanted to
translate medical documents you would
select so that's good question this is
about experimental design in general for
[Music]
for like NLP or any any machine learning
but the size of your development and
test sets should be large enough that
you can calculate statistical
significance in your results and have
that statistical significance be
reliable so if you I actually didn't
talk about statistical significant
significance testing I hope you got that
an intermediate statistics or language
and statistics or all of the other nice
classes here but if you didn't feel free
to ask me questions but the if you can
reliably calculate statistical
significance your dev and test sets are
large enough if not then you probably be
big at once they don't need to be any
bigger than that so like if you have a
thousand for translation maybe you need
a thousand sentences for a
classification maybe you need more if
your accuracy is very high you
I need more okay hmm so let me talk
about a final one this is one that
people might not think about quite
enough but is actually very very
important which is a mismatch between
your loss function and the final thing
that you're writing in your papers so if
you're doing parsing you might be
optimizing the negative log likelihood
of all of the parsing decisions but
you're actually measuring your F measure
on your parsing of your parser if you're
doing translation you're maximizing your
likelihood and your measuring your your
blue score so but even though the
likelihood is getting better your
accuracy might be getting worse or
vice-versa and if you remember from our
structured prediction
talk we talked about teacher forcing and
basically you're assuming that all your
previous decisions were correct when
you're doing training and you're not
doing it a test time and obviously
that's not a good idea in you know
that's one obvious reason why your your
training objective in your test
objective could be different um so
here's a very very interesting example
this is not exactly about the this is
not about the training objective and the
test objective but this is something
about where model score is clearly
clearly doesn't match your your
evaluation objectives so there's this
kind of famous thing in machine
translation where you'd have your model
score and if you look at the dark green
line as you do beam search your score
gets a little bit better but it gets
much much much worse and your your blue
score drops off very quickly as you
increase your view size so you're
getting better at searching right so you
should be getting better so you are
getting better model score basically
but suddenly your blue score is going
very far down and the reason why this is
the case is basically because you're
optimizing your when you optimize your
likelihood you get you're basically
trying to increase this value when
you're doing optimization but the
problem is this value is a whole bunch
of multiplications and every time you
multiply a probability it's getting
lower and lower your probability gets
lower lower lower
basically the beam search is getting
better at finding these kind of shorter
hypotheses and the length of your
sentences is dropping down a whole lot
the reason why this happens is basically
because you're optimizing this maximum
likelihood objective and you have no way
of knowing that or the model has no way
of basically saying no it's a bad idea
to generate really short hypotheses
which is what blue score wants you to do
so yeah so blue likes correct wait
sentences um there's a bunch of other
examples of this I'll show one actually
one better example again in the next one
but um the most principled way to
prevent this problem from happening is
to actually train your model to optimize
what you care about so if you care about
blue score you should be training your
model to optimize this um we've talked
about a whole bunch of techniques that
are ways to do this so structured max
margin trading minimum risk training
reinforcement learning things like
reinforced reward Augmented maximum
likelihood so these are all ways to
move your training objective to consider
something like blue score parsing f1
accuracy or or whatever else you care
about another simple method that like
one thing I understand is that many of
these are kind of difficult to implement
they're much harder and there's harder
and less efficient than maximum
likelihood except maybe the last one so
even this simple method is one way to
help a lot so if you remember this graph
you can see the loss function is getting
worse much faster than the accuracy is
getting worse
and this is actually a really common
problem so the reason why this happens
I believe I'm pretty sure this is the
problem is basically your model is
becoming more confident at predicting
things and as it becomes more confident
predicting things it's also so
confidently predicting a wrong thing is
really bad for your perplexity or
negative log likelihood but that's
really bad for your life likelihood but
you only get a penalty of one word being
wrong if you measure something like Blue
Square something like that
on the contrary accuracy continues to
get better as you start memorizing kind
of the long tail phenomena that you're
interested in modeling so this is
something I've seen in all kinds of
models it's almost always the case that
perplexity starts getting worse before
accuracy does so one simple way to to
kind of fix this is when you're doing
early stopping or learning rate decay do
it based on the thing that you actually
care about which is something like blue
score instead of doing it based on
perplexity or your loss function so this
is kind of a extremely this is an
extremely rough approximation to any of
the nice models here but it's
in the approximation that's really easy
to implement and it's something that I
can recommend doing the the one there's
one kind of caveat about this which is
you mentioned fluctuating evaluation
scores and the accuracies tend to
fluctuate more than loss so you do need
to be you need to act like a larger
patience or something like that when you
use this it's a it's a hyper parameter
but if I you know five is reasonable it
depends on how frequently you run your
you know as often as you want like one
kind of rule of thumb is you might want
to spend five percent of your time on
evaluating the development set so you
know you spend five percent of your time
on evaluating development and
ninety-five percent of your time on
training or something like that so I
think it's basically a time how much
time do you want to spend evaluating the
dev set one thing I definitely recommend
is don't wait till the end of the epoch
don't you know there's no need to wait
for the end of that partition unless you
have a very small training data you
might as well evaluate more frequently
yeah any other questions about this kind
of stuff
okay so I have some final words the
final words are about reproducing
previous work so this is relevant the
assignment might be useful um
reproducing previous work is hard for
the same reason tuning neural networks
is hard because everything's a parameter
um basically there's no good way to do
this other than looking at the code that
people have released if possible in
reducing the differences one by one so I
have a story about something that I did
very recently which is or I have two
stories about this one I I did very
recently I reduced all the differences
in the model and I got exactly the same
model and then I realized the only
difference between the two things that
we were doing is how we created mini
batches so how you create mini batches
might cause a big difference in your in
your model size and if you have the code
you can kind of work through things one
by one
another worse thing was when I tried to
try to debug things across two toolkits
and I had to write my own random number
generator to make sure that the
parameters were exactly the same it got
exactly the same thing tracking the
entire training thing until I found this
really bad bug that was causing the
optimizer to network properly so this
can be tough but if you have code that
you can use as an example it's a lot
easier if the code is not released all
you can do is try your best
there there's really no guarantee that
people will write everything in the
papers so if people are nice they will
if people are not necessarily mean but
just you know less less careful about
writing their paper there might be stuff
that's not in there but fortunately most
papers recently the code is released and
even papers from companies recently the
code is being released more and more
which is
a very as graduate students consider
yourselves lucky this was not the case
five years ago or whatever when I was a
graduate students also um a lot of
people don't realize this but very often
if you contact the author's so respond
to you very and be very pull you know
very happy to help you if you think
about what it would feel like if
somebody contacted you about your work I
think it would feel very good right you
know somebody is interested in my work
and cares enough about it to
reimplemented and you would probably
want to help them with that and you know
it's the same for most other people of
course it's not always the case if it's
somebody who's very busy or somebody who
works at a company that can't release
their code sometimes they won't help but
my experience is 90% of the time that
people will will be very happy
yep that's yes
that's a good question I'll let them
answer that
next time did you hear the question you
can ask anything else yeah cool
yeah thanks thanks a lot